the FED pivot is here but is this
actually what people are asking for
because the end result of it is going to
be something that most people haven't
expected you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you the first
thing we need to look at is what
happened at the FED meeting this was
something that the stock market happened
to love and I'll explain why the second
thing we got to understand is how this
will impact the bond market the economy
and of course stock as well and then we
need to look at why more inflation is
set to occur yes beyond all that we've
been seeing recently even more let's dig
in right away I want to show you what
has happened here with the Federal
Reserve and understand where we've been
up until this point you see interest
rates super low for super long and we
know that as time has moved on we have
been accustomed to that and and that has
made the markets really hate everything
that's been happening with these higher
levels of interest it's been a wacky
time and now what we are seeing is the
final change perhaps right now the FED
had this meeting they held interest
rates and they kind of said let's wait
and see there's more details though
there's some things you may not have
been aware of fed leaves us rates
unchanged but long way to go and in the
inflation battle Central Bank maintains
The Benchmark fed funds rate but chair
Powell says he leaves the door open to
further rate increases the market didn't
hear that the market only heard you're
not going to hike and you're probably
done hiking all right let's buy it up
and so the markets did go up because in
the last little while the markets have
been rather weak and based on some
technical indicators it looks like it
may have bottomed out at least on this
near-term trend if we go into a
recession
perhaps different story but right now
short term it looks like the markets are
loving this and for good reason because
they need the money printing to happen
in order to go up further to new record
highs here the key takeaways the fomc
left unanimously by the way left them
unchanged so the interest rate right now
is at a 22-year high 5.25 to
5.5% they said that they would basically
repeat in the prior language of
determining the extent of additional
policy firming that may be appropriate
all that means let's get rid of the FED
speak if we need to we're going to hike
if inflation goes up higher if inflation
doesn't go higher then we can just
continue on with this level of interest
rate they're not necessarily talking
about cutting rates but they're talking
about talking about cutting rates okay
and the economy expanded a strong Pace
in the third quarter compared with prior
description of recent solid pace and so
basically if the economy is too hot if
things are too crazy then the Federal
Reserve needs to continue to increase
interest rates to slow things down but
if things are weak well then they have
an excuse to cut interest rates and
start printing money but that's not
really what's happening based on their
indicators of course and so we look look
at this in depth the Federal Reserve has
basically said because yields have risen
the bond market you know you're going to
get a lot for your your bonds at this
time right you're going to get 5% you're
going to get more than 5% on some of
that debt and so that in a sense creates
a what he said anyway was a um you know
a slowing down of inflation you know
achieving the goals that they have and
so in part that may mean that they don't
need to increase here if that were to
continue if things change then who knows
but the markets let me tell you are in a
state in which at least According to
some indications a buy right now and
that is you know there's a million
different ways to look at it this is
just something that I pulled up but just
showing us that we were we find
ultimately that when there's too many
bears it looks bullish and when there's
too many bulls it looks bearish it's
always the opposite when everybody jumps
in on a trade oh AI is the next big
thing look at what happened the peak
optimism for AI came at the absolute top
of the market for AI and now we can see
that that has somewhat come off the top
doesn't mean it's going to go crash to
nothing it just means that when there's
too much optimism or too much pessimism
it usually flips the other way and we
can see that with different oscillators
these oscillators I'll talk about these
in my my uh small group class on the
Friday session but basically you have
different oscillators
stochastic um you know the stochastic
indicators they got the RSI you got the
stochastic slope you have even the RSI
indicator you can look at I mean there's
a number of them but the point is these
oscillators tell us when we've gone over
bought when we've gone oversold and of
course that means the opposite usually
occurs when there's too much in one
trade it usually goes the other
direction okay we see that in the
technicals and right now certainly that
had been the case that's shortterm
though that doesn't mean longer term
even medium-term
2year yield plunges as hiking cycle
nears an end and so the markets just
said okay that's it it's over and we'll
see what happens okay but maybe that 5%
level was the top and maybe rates won't
go go any higher what do you think
Powell's doish pivot was cheered by the
markets and of course the S&P did go up
but when you look at what's going on in
the economy this could derail their
entire plan and that's what I'm trying
to get to here in this video what do you
think is happening inside the economy
now do you see strength well when I go
out certainly people are still spending
money and it really depends though when
you start asking asking questions about
what people are buying and everything is
you know being locked up behind the
counter because of so much ramp and
theft and all these different things and
it starts to paint a mixed picture of
what's going on but when we look at the
GDP now statistic directly from the
Federal Reserve they're telling us prior
it was 5% 4.9% and now they're telling
us it's going to be
1.2% okay big change so we know that
that very unusual Spike was not exactly
the most realistic we've ever seen
before if we have a weakening
economy that would in fact create an
incentive for the government to need to
spend more but when that spending
happens it comes at a price and that's
what I want to break down in these next
uh few articles where we talk about
Summers we're going to look at drug
Miller and others okay us fiscal deficit
is a more serious problem than ever
before according to Larry
Summers and a lot of what this is
basically there's the deficit is just
too high and you've got debt imagine all
this debt all this funny
money and there's an interest rate
associated with that at the same time
how do you fund the deficit well you
have to create these little debt
packages that's the way I think of it I
think of like the debt they take it they
put it inside a box they put a little
ribbon on the top of it and they sell it
off to investors but that is ultimately
something that has to be paid back with
interest and you can't afford that if
you continue to make things worse if you
continue to go into that debt and
they're clearly doing so and so Larry
Summers is pointing that out he's not
the only one one the higher for longer
concept has a really dark underbelly to
it that I think has affected the bond
market over the past six or eight weeks
this is according to the bond King
Jeffrey golock this interest expense is
starting to come home very quickly one
thing that the market has to confront is
we cannot sustain these interest rates
and and this deficit any longer and
obviously you got trillions that are at
levels quite frankly that you can't pay
it back long
term all right now looking at this this
is the treasury details plans to step up
the size of the bond sales to manage
growing debt and looking at this when I
I just did a video about this recently
and I think it's really really important
to know what happens here the government
takes all this debt they package it up
they sell it off to investors that's
fine and dandy when there's lots of
investors coming through but have you
noticed something
recently I know you have China is not
the buyer it once was it's debatable
whether they're doing it through a
subsidiary or what have you but at least
officially they've been selling off for
a decade if you look at the trend line
it's basically been a decade where
they've been largely selling off their
debt they've been going towards other
currencies and they've been buying up
gold and they've been using that of
course this is you know foreign exchange
they can use that to create a balance in
between their currency and the US
dollar
Now understand that it's not Perpetual
you cannot go into debt forever when you
have the concern that maybe this is a
problem and you're going to have to
incentivize buyers of that debt with
much higher levels of Interest so maybe
5% is not going to cut it anymore it's
not going to be enough investors to buy
so maybe it's 6% maybe it's seven how
are they ever going to pay that back of
course we know they can't and that's
when the Federal Reserve comes in to buy
it all up and do you see where that
becomes inflationary that's monetizing
the debt they do that already now but
we're talking about on a mass scale
Beyond q12 and three Beyond it world's
safest Market becomes a magnet for big
investors us government that was once
among the sleepiest corners of Finance
no longer and they're just talking about
what has been going on here individuals
getting in they're buying it up like
crazy they're making all kinds of Bets
with it and that's how it works in the
financial industry we are always going
to see massive
speculation in every corner it's AI
today it's treasuries tomorrow it's you
know electric vehicles the day after
what ever it's it's going to be
something and there's going to be a lot
of these computer algorithms you're
going to find the Traders getting into
it and that will create this massive
volatility and it's important to
understand that this is always a factor
so you know it's going to go Way Beyond
on the upside and the downside simply
because of speculation and that that's
treasuries that's AI That's anything and
so we got to be aware of that and as
investors we've got to position
ourselves appropriately we don't want to
get in where there's hype we want to
know that there's a trend we want to be
with the trend of course but we don't
want to get into hype there's comes at a
time in which things are getting too hot
we start to trim our winnings take that
back a bit and now we start to reassess
that's my message to you okay if you
want to know more information if you
want to join a whole bunch of
like-minded people we have I think
almost 1400 people 1300 people in the
Discord group it's a place that people
are sharing information about real
estate about stocks about debt about
everything I'm in there every single day
I'd love for you to join it's totally
free Link in the description join us on
these conversations that happen every
single day and the you know in the same
time you get the notification for the
daily video of the YouTube so you'll
never miss a notification of course
you'll get it all in one Place Link in
the description I'd love to see you
there come in say hi and I'll reply to
you all right Brett was talking about
this the comment of the day thank you
David please consider looking into what
steps if any that individual Bank seem
to be taken to shore up their reserves
and what they could mean for the overall
health of banking yes that's right and
right now we can see that Banks need to
incentivize more deposits hey will offer
you more more more but that's of course
a challenge because uh that becomes
expensive and if they're not earning
that on the other side that's going to
hit their stocks if their stocks get hit
they start the layoffs so watch out keep
an eye on this right here I want to
thank you for your comments each and
every single day I read them all hav
been doing so for well over a decade and
we'll continue to do so all right so I
want to thank you for being here don't
forget to tune in tomorrow each and
every day take care